added section on tracebacks (#8)
python/exceptiongroups: except_star.md

We can consider allowing some of them in future versions of Python.

## The Traceback of an Exception Group

For regular exceptions, the traceback represents a simple path of frames,
from the frame in which the exception was raised to the frame in which it was
was caught or, if it hasn't been caught yet, the frame that the program's
execution is currently in. The list is constructed by the interpreter which
appends a frame to the traceback of the 'current exception' (the one returned
by `sys.exc_info()`) if one exists. To support efficient appends, the links
in a traceback's list of frames are from the oldest to the newest frame.
Appending a new frame is then simply a matter of inserting a new head to the
linked list referenced from the exception's `__traceback__` field. Crucially,
the traceback is immutable in the sense that once frames are added they are

> no longer modified.

Reviewer: It's really the singly-linked list that's no longer modified, right? So the list is immutable.

the exception's `__traceback__` field.

When we add `ExceptionGroup`s, the traceback becomes a tree of frames: each
exception has a traceback that describes the path from where it was raised
to where it was first added to an `ExceptionGroup`. From that point, all
exceptions in the same group travel through the same frames, possibly
merging with other exceptions into larger `ExceptionGroup`s. In this section
we describe the `TracebackGroup` data structure which we are proposing to
represent the tracebacks of the exceptions in an `ExceptionGroup`.

`TracebackGroup`s satisfy the following requirements:
1. Supports appending a frame in O(1) time.
2. Supports efficient insertions and deletions of tracebacks as the
exception group grows and splits.
3. Does not hold references that can prevent GC of exceptions from the group.
4. Does not require API breaking changes to the current traceback
representation for regular exceptions.

The `TracebackGroup` type is a subclass of `Traceback` and therefore can be
assigned to the `__traceback__` field of an exception.
Instead of a single `tb_next` link to a single traceback, the

> `TracebackGroup` has a `tb_next_map` that maps each exception from the

Reviewer 2: Looks like it's a `WeakKeyDict`.

`ExceptionGroup` to a traceback. This map holds weak references to
its keys so that it does not prevent GC of exceptions.

**Appending a frame** `f` to the end of the traceback of an exception `eg`
is exactly the same as for traceback groups and regular tracebacks:

```python
tb = Traceback(tb_frame = f, tb_next = eg.__traceback__)
eg.__traceback__ = tb
```

**Adding an exception** `e` to the `ExceptionGroup eg` requires adding its
exception(s) to `tb_next_map` of `eg`:

```python
if not isinstance(e, ExceptionGroup):
    keys = [e]                               # e is a simple exception
else:
    keys = list(e.tb_next_map.keys())        # e is an ExceptionGroup

for k in keys:
    if not isinstance(eg.__traceback__, TracebackGroup):
        # simple traceback, convert it to a group    (WILL WE EVER NEED THIS?)

>         eg.__traceback__ = TracebackGroup.fromTraceback(eg.__traceback__)

Author: I'm not at all sure that this 'TracebackGroup.fromTraceback' call can ever happen - I put it in for completion, so that we can hopefully rule it out.

Why would we add an exception to an ExceptionGroup that was created in another frame? Wouldn't that mean that we create a new ExceptionGroup in the current frame and insert our exception along with the original exception group, so that we end up with the original EG nested in the new one?

>         eg.__traceback__ = TracebackGroup.fromTraceback(eg.__traceback__)

Author: Maybe we should first write down the spec for ExceptionGroup and how it is manipulated during a try-except* block. Then we will know what invariants we can assume for the TracebackGroup operations.

>         eg.__traceback__ = TracebackGroup.fromTraceback(eg.__traceback__)

Reviewer 2: > Maybe we should first write down the spec for ExceptionGroup and how it is manipulated during a try-except* block. 

+1. It's the ExceptionGroup API and how they're used by try..except* that will guide the TracebackGroup design, not the other way around.

    eg.__traceback__.tb_next_map[weakref(k)] = e.__traceback__
```

To **remove** an exception from an `ExceptionGroup` we do the reverse: we
remove this exception from all `tb_next_map`s on its traceback path (there
may be more than one `tb_next_map` that have this exception in its keys if
the `ExceptionGroup` is nested):

```python
tb = e.__traceback__
while tb:
    if isintance(tb, TracebackGroup):

>         next = tb.tb_next_map[e]

Author: I think it shouldn't be possible if the data structure is intact. Each exception should lead to a leaf of the tree.

        del tb.tb_next_map[e]
        tb = next
    else:
        tb = tb.tb_next
```

To **split out a subset** of the exceptions in an `ExceptionGroup` that
match a certain except* clause, we create a new empty `ExceptionGroup`,
and then perform a sequence of deletions from the original group and
insertions into the new group. These operations update the tracebacks

> as well:

Author: It's worth considering. Does that impact the algorithms much?

> as well:

Reviewer: Probably not much. Dealing with the tracebacks will be the most complicated part either way.

the new ExceptionGroup low-level APIs along with `try..except ExceptionGroup`
to support running user code that can raise exception groups.

### Traceback Representation

We considered options for adapting the traceback data structure to represent

> trees, but it became aparent that a traceback tree is not meaninful once separated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
trees, but it became apparent that a traceback tree is not meaningful once separated
```
